#summary Instructions and guidelines for providing documentation in code, SVN and Wiki
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Support

==Code comments==
In the future Platinum may adapt [http://doxygen.org Doxygen] for generating automatic documentation. To support this - and to get a common style - comments should be made in a [http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen/docblocks.html Doxygen-compatible syntax]:

===Header files (.h)===
The header file should start with a brief description like this example:
{{{
/////////////////////////////////////////////////
//
//  The_class $Revision $
///
/// Class that does its thing. Used with The_other_class.
///
//  $LastChangedBy $
//
}}}
The tags starting with "$" will be filled in by SVN after commit.
Functions and their parameters can be briefly described in their forward (header) declaration:
{{{
void SomeFunction (); ///This is some function
}}}
Note the _three_ slashes on consecutive lines that trigger Doxygen. For all other minor comments, use only two slashes.
===Implementation (.cc/.hxx) files===
The first line of implementation files should have a
{{{
// $Id $
}}}
which provides a summary including who, when and at which revision the file was last edited. If necessary, implementation files may instead use the .h header as described above.

*Note:* all source files must contain the [LGPL] header. For some files (at the time of writing: only example applications) the license should be [BSD] rather than LGPL. 
==SVN commit comments==
When committing changes with [SVN], try to make the following information available:
 * *Which classes/functions* were changed (which file(s) were affected is automatically recorded in the log)
 * *Why* - bug fix/new feature/code cleanup?
==Google Code Wiki==
A more thorough description of a class, plans et.c. should be put in this wiki. Use these tags:
||For||Tag||Page name||
||Description of an entire class, including info on functions||!ClassDescription||Class name||
||Page about a single function||!FunctionDescription||Function name||

When mentioning a class name, use `[ ]` to link to its page like this: `[viewmanager]` becomes [viewmanager].











