#summary plans for transfer function implementation
#labels Phase-Design

=Integration=
The transfer objects's main function operates on an [image_general] iterator. It may also need access to min/max values, which can be done via its pointer to the associated image. (as [image_storage]). Transfer functions are implemented as objects attached to image objects. Their UI is a subclass to Fl_group, displayed through the image's dataWidget.

When selected by the user, a new transfer function object of the chosen type is created by the static [transferfactory] object in the [transfer_manufactured] base class.

==Classes==

*[transfer_mapcolor]*
Assigns unique colors to few (20 or less) consecutive integer values, like on a map. If it turns out to be applicable only to the [image_label] class, this class should be renamed transfer_label.

_*[transfer_CT]*_
Special _computed tomography_ transfer function with several avaiable presets for the Hounsfield values of various tissue types, including a possible multi-color scheme for muscle, bone, fat etc.

*[transfer_brightnesscontrast]*
Simple brightness and contrast sliders.

*[transfer_linear]*
As above, but implemented as a line graph on a histogram.

*[transfer_spline]*
Spline interpolated transfer curve.

*[transfer_default]*
The default transfer function, maps values into grayscales with lowest value in image being black and highest white.

===Helpers===
*[transfer_manufactured]*
Untemplated base class to allow a static factory object

*[transfer_base]*
Abstract base for all transfer functions

*[transfer_interpolated]*
Abstract base for transfer functions using curves/lines drawn on a histogram, with lookup table (transfer_spline, transfer_linear)
